# capstone-project
Capstone Project Data 606


Analyzing tweets for predicting mental health states using machine learning and generative AI

Using social media information to predict how people might feel could help keep an eye on mental health. It gives quick information that can help doctors. But it is important that the ways we make these guesses are accurate enough. Analyzing the posted tweets on social media is one way to study people’s mental health on social media. This research investigates English tweets generated using OpenAI API, utilizing both traditional and deep learning algorithms to detect if they are related to any mental health conditions. Two groups of tweets are generated: Diagnosed group (tweets from individuals with mental health conditions including ADHD, Autism, Anxiety, Depression, PTSD, and Schizophrenia) and Control group (tweets not related to mental health) [2]. Then we extract various textual features from the data, including n-grams, q-gram and topic modeling, and used these features to train traditional machine learning and deep learning classifiers. These classifiers were used for binary classification (to differentiate between diagnosed and non-diagnosed users) and multiclass classification (to identify the specific diagnosis). LinearSVM and recurrent neural networks (RNNs) demonstrated the best performance in both classification tasks. Lexical features based on n-grams and q-grams were particularly effective across both datasets. Our models achieved an AUC of 0.98 using word_unigram when doing binary classification. We also obtained an AUC of 0.99 using character-wb_5gram when doing multiclass classification.